0:00
My name is Daniele, Daniele De Leo, and I am 58 years old, I’m from Romagna.
0:06.000
I graduated in agriculture, I was an agronomist for many years, but at a certain point I had this passion, this excitement: I wanted to be a populariser,
0:17.020
I wanted to be the one who talks to the younger, to the older ones but also to the curious, to the consumers, to the ones who actually love our products, 
0:25
love the products of the territory of Emilia Romagna region, and so at that point 
0:32
from agronomist I became a populariser, agribusiness populariser, then why not? 
Food and wine entertainer, and why not storyteller?
0:40
So that's what a gastro guide is: it's a person who loves and who makes people love, 
0:47
it's a person who has suggestion and who makes people suggest, but it's also a person who has knowledge because we have to tell true things. 
0:58
However, wine can be told, its aromas, alcoholicity, all beautiful, but behind it there must be a dream, there must be a thought, why is that wine called that? 
1:06
Because grandmother was good, grandmother however passed away and so we wanted to dedicate it to grandmother.
1:09
This is what the gastro guide has to do!
1:13
Then it is obvious that if the wine is barricaded, the barricaded wine has spent a year, a year and a half in a wooden barrel. 
1:16
It's obvious that balsamic vinegar whether it's 12 years old or if it's 25 years old it's beautiful different.
1:24
So there are nuances, there are differences, but we have to tell them ourselves, we have to become gastro-guides, which is a word that maybe doesn't exist.
1:30
What to do to become gastro guides? 
1:33
Dissolve the reserve, put the handbrake down and go away books. 
1:40
And we see this in guides, for example environmental guides, guides who tell us about a monument sometimes can be good, however sometimes there is coldness, there is a bit of awkwardness.
1:55
The gastro guide has to put the handbrake down and how to say, push the accelerator, excite because Brisighella extra virgin olive oil is a monovarietal. 
2:01
What does monovarietal mean? 
2:06
It means we only use one variety of olive. 
And what could it be? 
2:10
What do the others do? 
Others make blends, easy to make blends! 
2:15
We use one variety of olives, we make traditional balsamic vinegar that is something that belongs to Modena and Reggio Emilia, however we wait 12 or 25 years, so here the emotions are there and it is nice that they are there.
2:30
I can give you a recipe, a recipe that in some ways doesn't really require you to be an expert cook, or years and years of experience. 
2:39
Risotto with a soffritto of shallots from Romagna IGP and then I like the idea of using the extra virgin olive oil that we were talking about either from brisighella dop or from the hills of Romagna DOP.
2:49
But be careful, because then you throw rice, I would be on an ABC, what is the Abc of rice? 
The Abc of rice is Arborio, Baldo and Carnaroli, which are the great protagonists of Po Delta rice.
3:02
So we use raw materials that belong to us, for which we have great respect, they are raw materials for which we have fought battles, even dignity battles, and we like to, in some ways reiterate that every time. 
3:15
And so watch out, rice, you fade with what?
3:18
Well, we could use a nice perfect pignoletto, a perfect Albana.
3:23
Well, I would use malvasia when I simmer, Malvasia of Candia Aromatica which also gives that connotation; not to be confused sometimes you say malvasia never sweet I don't like it, right?
3:32
Wine is never sweet, you pick grapes that are sweet, then you get wines that can be still, sparkling, dry, raisin... everything.
3:42
Then, watch out at some point, you add Salamina da Sugo crumbled abundantly, because the risotto must have salamina da Sugo crumbled and then the final mantecatura 
3:50
with abundant Parmigiano Reggiano I would not exaggerate, the 36 months in some ways has its dignities, but on risotto a 24 months is better.
4:04
Dear gastro guides make sure we are there because the world needs you, or rather us!
